# 5.12 Oracle Support
Oracle databases have some specific characteristics, and JFinal has made some additional adjustments to accommodate Oracle users. Below is a complete Oracle configuration example:

```java
public class DemoConfig extends JFinalConfig {
  public void configPlugin(Plugins me) {
    DruidPlugin dp = new DruidPlugin(……);
    me.add(dp);
    // Configure Oracle driver, this line can be omitted when using DruidPlugin
    dp.setDriverClass("oracle.jdbc.driver.OracleDriver");
    
    ActiveRecordPlugin arp = new ActiveRecordPlugin(dp);
    me.add(arp);
    // Configure Oracle dialect
    arp.setDialect(new OracleDialect());
    // Configure case-insensitive container factory for attribute names (field names)
    arp.setContainerFactory(new CaseInsensitiveContainerFactory());
    arp.addMapping("user", "user_id", User.class);
  }
}
```

Since Oracle databases automatically convert attribute names (field names) to uppercase, you need to manually specify the primary key name in uppercase, like: `arp.addMapping("user", "ID", User.class)`. If you want ActiveRecord to be case-insensitive to attribute names (field names), you can achieve this by setting `CaseInsensitiveContainerFactory`. With this setting, specifying `arp.addMapping("user", "ID", User.class)` is no longer necessary.

Moreover, Oracle does not directly support auto-increment primary keys. JFinal provides a convenient solution for this. Enabling Oracle to support auto-incrementing primary keys mainly involves two steps: 
1. Creating a sequence. In this example, the sequence name is `MY_SEQ`.
```sql
CREATE SEQUENCE MY_SEQ
 INCREMENT BY 1
 MINVALUE 1
 MAXVALUE 9999999999999999
 START WITH 1
 CACHE 20;
 ```
2. Use the sequence in your model:
```java
// Create User and use the sequence
User user = new User().set("id", "MY_SEQ.nextval").set("age", 18);
user.save();
// Get the id value
Integer id = user.get("id");
```
Using the sequence is simple; you just need to use `yourModel.set(primaryKeyName, sequenceName + ".nextval")`. Note that the ".nextval" suffix must be in lowercase, as `OracleDialect` is case-sensitive to this value.

Note: For pagination and sorting SQL statements in Oracle, two conditions must be met:

1. The SQL statement must have a sorting condition.
2. If the sorting condition is not unique, it must be followed by a unique condition, such as a primary key.

Relevant Blog: http://database.51cto.com/art/201010/231533.htm

Feedback: http://www.jfinal.com/feedback/64#replyContent
