# 5.13 Enjoy SQL Template

JFinal uses its built-in Enjoy Template Engine to provide a minimalistic SQL template management feature. The engine only has three directives: `#sql`, `#para`, and `#namespace`, making it extremely easy to learn.

**Note**: Besides these three SQL management directives, all other features of the jfinal template engine can also be applied in SQL management. For more details on the jfinal template engine, refer to Chapter 6: http://www.jfinal.com/doc/6-1

## 1. Basic Configuration
To enable SQL management in `ActiveRecordPlugin`, use the following example code:

```java
ActiveRecordPlugin arp = new ActiveRecordPlugin(druidPlugin);
arp.addSqlTemplate("all.sql");
_MappingKit.mapping(arp);
me.add(arp);
```

In the example above, `arp.addSqlTemplate("all.sql")` reads the "all.sql" file from the class path or jar file. You can add multiple external SQL files by calling `addSqlTemplate` multiple times. 

You can also set `arp.setDevMode(true)` if you want hot reload of SQL files during development. By default, it uses the dev mode configuration from `configConstant`.

## 2. #sql Directive
The `#sql` directive is used to define SQL templates. Here's an example:

```sql
#sql("findGirl")
  select * from girl where age > ? and age < ? and weight < 50
#end
```

To get this SQL in Java code:

```java
String sql = Db.getSql("findGirl");
Db.find(sql, 16, 23);
```

## 3. #para Directive

### 3.1 Using int Constants #para(int)
The `#para` directive generates question mark placeholders and corresponding parameter values in SQL templates. Two usages are supported; the first is passing an int constant:

```sql
#sql("findGirl")
  select * from girl where age > #para(0) and weight < #para(1)
#end
```

In Java code:

```java
Db.template("findGirl", 18, 50).find();
```

### 3.2 Using Non-int Constants #para(expr)
The second usage allows you to pass any expression other than an int constant:

```sql
#sql("findGirl")
  select * from girl where age > #para(age) and weight < #para(weight)
#end
```

In Java code:

```java
Kv cond = Kv.of("age", 18).set("weight", 50);
Db.template("findGirl", cond).find();
```

### 3.3 Comparison between #para(int) and #para(expression)
The `#para(int)` method requires passing an int constant, while `#para(expression)` requires passing a Map.

### 3.4 Support for `like` and `in` Clauses (new in 5.0.0)
You can now use `#para` with `like` and `in` by passing a second parameter:

```sql
select * from t title like #para(title, "like")
select * from t title id in #para(idList, "in")
```

## 4. #namespace Directive
The `#namespace` directive specifies a namespace for SQL statements, allowing multiple modules to use the same SQL key for better modularity.

```sql
#namespace("japan")
  #sql("findGirl")
    select * from girl where age > #para(0) and age < #para(1) and weight < 50
  #end
#end
```

In Java:

```java
Db.template("japan.findGirl", 17, 21).find();
```

## 5. template() vs getSqlPara()
To reduce code and improve development experience, jfinal 4.0 introduced the `template` method, which is essentially the same as `getSqlPara`.

## 6. templateByString()
If you want to keep SQL templates in a String variable instead of an external file, you can use the `templateByString` method:

```java
String sqlTemplate = "select * from girl where age > #para(0) and weight < #para(1)";
Db.templateByString(sqlTemplate, 18, 50).find();
```

## 7. Pagination
For pagination, you can use the `paginate` method with `template` or `getSqlPara`:

```java
Db.template("findGirl", 18, 50).paginate(1, 10);
```

## 8. Advanced Usage
You can use all the existing directives in the JFinal Template Engine to generate complex SQL queries.

## 9. Multiple Data Sources
In a multi-datasource environment, you can use `Db.use(...)` to specify the datasource:

```java
Db.use(otherDataSource).template(sqlKey, para).find();
```

## 10. SQL Content Compression
jfinal 4.9 added a whitespace compression feature to the Engine, which can also be applied to SQL templates:

```java
Engine engine = arp.getEngine();
engine.setCompressorOn(' ');
```

You can also use the newline character '\n' as a compression delimiter:

```java
engine.setCompressorOn('\n');
```
