# 3.2 Action

### 1. Definition of Action
Public methods defined within a Controller are known as Actions. An Action represents the smallest unit of a request. Action methods must be defined inside a Controller and should be publicly visible.
```java
public class HelloController extends Controller {
    public void index() {
       renderText("This method is an action");
    }
    public String test() {
       return "index.html";
    }
}
```
In the above code, two Actions are defined: `HelloController.index()` and `HelloController.test()`.

Actions can have return values. These return values can be obtained in interceptors using `invocation.getReturnValue()`, which can be useful for controlling rendering.

### 2. @NotAction Annotation
If you want a public method in a controller not to act as an action, you can use the `@NotAction` annotation. The `@NotAction` annotation is often used for intermediate Controllers that inherit from a `BaseController`, for example:
```java
public class BaseController extends Controller {
   
   // Doesn't wish to be an action, only for child class or interceptor calls
   @NotAction
   public void getLoginUser() {
   
   }
}
```

### 3. Routing Mapping for Controller Superclass
Starting from JFinal 3.6, by default, all methods in the controller superclass won't be mapped as actions. (Meaning, in the JFinal 3.6 version, the `@NotAction` in the above `BaseController` example is no longer necessary, as `BaseController` is the superclass of your final controller, `XxxController`).

If you want the methods in the superclass to be mapped as actions, just add the following configuration:
```java
public void configRoute(Routes me) {
    me.setMappingSuperClass(true);
}
```

This feature is for performance optimization. Projects with a large number of routes can speed up the startup. If this configuration is set in the "child Routes", it will only be effective for that "child Routes", for example:
```java
public FrontRoutes extends Routes {
   public void config() {
      // The configuration here is only effective for routes under FrontRoutes. It is recommended to configure this way to improve performance.
      setMappingSuperClass(true);
      
      add("/weixin", WeixinController.class);
   }
}
```
More details about "child Routes" can be found in the second chapter, the `configRoute` section.