# 3.4 get & getPara series methods

The Controller provides the `getPara` series of methods to obtain parameters from the request. The `getPara` series is divided into two types. The first type includes the `getPara` series of methods where the first parameter is of type String. This series of methods encapsulates the `HttpServletRequest.getParameter(String name)` method, and they all call `HttpServletRequest.getParameter(String name)`.

The second type includes the `getPara` series of methods where the first parameter is of type int or has no parameters. This series of methods retrieves the parameter value from `urlPara`. `getParaMap` and `getParaNames` correspond to `HttpServletRequest`'s `getParameterMap` and `getParameterNames`, respectively.

**Memory trick:** The methods where the first parameter is a String will obtain field values from the form or URL parameters. Those with an int as the first parameter or no parameters will get the parameter values from `urlPara`.

Usage examples of `getPara`:

| Method Call | Return Value |
| --- | --- |
| `getPara("title")` | Returns the form field "title" parameter value. |
| `getParaToInt("age")` | Returns the form field "age" parameter value and converts it to int type. |
| `getPara(0)` | Returns the first value of the URL's `urlPara` parameter. For example, the request `http://localhost/controllerKey/method/v0-v1-v2` will return "v0". |
| `getParaInt(1)` | Returns the second value of the URL's `urlPara` parameter and converts it to int type. For example, the request `http://localhost/controllerKey/method/2-5-9` will return 5. |
| `getParaInt(2)` | For the request `http://localhost/controllerKey/method/2-5-N8`, this will return -8. Note: The letters "N" and "n" both represent a negative sign, which is useful when the `urlParaSeparator` is "-". |
| `getPara()` | Returns the entire value of the URL's `urlPara` parameter. For example, the request `http://localhost/controllerKey/method/v0-v1-v2` will return "v0-v1-v2-v3". |

**Important update in jfinal 3.6:** JFinal 3.6 added shorter alternative methods to the `getPara` and `getParaToXxx` series of methods. Below are some usage examples:
```java
// Replacing `getPara` with `get`
String title = get("title");
 
// Replacing `getParaToInt` with `getInt`
Integer age = getInt("age");
 
// Replacing `setAttr` with `set`
set("article", article);
```

**Important update in jfinal 3.5:** JFinal 3.5 introduced the `getRawData()` method, making it easy to retrieve String type data from the HTTP request body, typically in JSON or XML format, such as:
```java
String json = getRawData();
User user = FastJson.getJson().parse(json, User.class);
```
In the above code, `getRawData()` retrieves the String-type JSON data sent from the client. The `getRawData()` method can be called multiple times in a single request-response interaction without throwing an exception.

Note that when forwarding to another action using `forwardAction(...)`, `getRawData()` cannot retrieve data. In this case, use `setAttr("rawData", getRawData())` to pass the data to the target action being forwarded to, and then in the target action, retrieve it using `getAttr("rawData")`. This situation is rare.