# 3.7 render method
### 1. `render(String view)`
The `render(String view)` method will render the template pointed to by the `view` parameter. The rule for the final template file pointed to by the `view` is:

```
String template = baseViewPath + viewPath + view
```

In this formula:
- `view` is the parameter carried by the `render(String view)` method.
- `baseViewPath` and `viewPath` are two values specified during route configuration.

For example:

```java
public void configRoute(Routes me) {
   // The baseViewPath is "/_view". This value will be taken by all Controllers mapped under this Routes object.
   me.setBaseViewPath("/_view");
   
   // basePath is the third parameter "/index".
   me.add("/", IndexController.class, "/index");
   
   // If the third parameter is omitted, basePath takes the value of the first parameter: "/project".
   me.add("/project", ProjectController.class);
}
```

For the above configuration, when using `render` in `IndexController`, the template file will be:

```java
public class IndexController extends Controller {
   public void demo() {
     // The template points to: "/_view/index/abc.html".
     render("abc.html");
   }
}
```

The above `render("abc.html")` will point to the template located under the webapp directory at "/_view/index/abc.html".

### 2. Configuring the template engine for `render(String view)`
The `render(String view)` method will render the template file based on the `me.setViewType(ViewType)` method configured in `configConstant(Constants me)`. For instance:

```java
public void configConstant(Constants me) {
  me.setViewType(ViewType.JFINAL_TEMPLATE);
}
```

This configuration will use JFinal's built-in enjoy template engine to render the template. Note that this configuration only affects the `Controller.render(String view)` method; other render methods remain unchanged.

### 3. Other methods in the `render` series
The `render` series methods will render different types of views and return them to the client. JFinal currently supports views such as: JFinal Template, FreeMarker, JSP, Velocity, JSON, File, Text, Html, and QrCode. Besides the views supported by JFinal, you can also infinitely extend the view types by inheriting the `Render` abstract class.

Here are some usage examples:

```java
// Render the template named "test.html" with the JFinal Template view type.
renderTemplate("test.html");
 
// Generate a QR code.
renderQrCode("content");
 
// Render the template named "test.html" with the FreeMarker view type.
renderFreeMarker("test.html");
 
// ... (other examples)
```

### 4. Customizing the implementation class of `Controller.render` series methods
JFinal provides the `RenderFactory` to customize the implementation class of all `render` methods in the `Controller`. Here is the code to customize the `Controller.render(String view)` implementation class:

```java
// Customize a MyRender.
public class MyRender extends Render {
  ...
}
 
// Extend RenderFactory to switch Controller.render(String view)
// to our custom MyRender.
public class MyRenderFactory extends RenderFactory {
   public Render getRender(String view) {
      return new MyRender(view);
   }
}
 
// Configure to take effect.
public void configConstant(Constants me) {
   me.setRenderFactory(new MyRenderFactory());
}
```

In the above code, the `MyRenderFactory.getRender(...)` method overrides the parent class `RenderFactory.getRender(...)` method, switching the implementation class of `Controller.render(String view)`. Similarly, the implementation class of all `render` methods in the `Controller` can be switched to custom classes in this way, providing great flexibility.