# 3.8 renderFile file download

### 1. Basic Usage of `renderFile`
The `renderFile` series of methods are used for file downloads.

The `renderFile` method uses a `baseDownloadPath` parameter as the base path to locate the file. In a standard maven project setup, this parameter defaults to the directory: `src/main/webapp/download`.

Here's how to use it under the default configuration:

```java
// The final downloaded file will be: src/main/webapp/download/file.zip
renderFile("file.zip");
 
// The final downloaded file will be: src/main/webapp/download/abc/def/file.zip
renderFile("abc/deb/file.zip");
```

As shown above, the final downloaded file is always: `baseDownloadPath` + the parameter passed into `renderFile`.

The existence of `baseDownloadPath` effectively fixes a base path. `renderFile` always uses this path as the base to locate the file.

### 2. Configuring `baseDownloadPath`
`baseDownloadPath` can also be freely configured in `configConstant(Constants me)`. For example:

```java
me.setBaseDownloadPath("files");
```

In the context of a standard maven project, the `baseDownloadPath` value from the configuration above will point to the directory `src/main/webapp/files`.

Additionally, `baseDownloadPath` can also be configured as an absolute path, allowing it to point outside the project. For example:

```java
// For Linux/Mac systems, paths starting with "/" are absolute paths.
me.setBaseDownloadPath("/var/download");
 
// For Windows systems, paths starting with a drive letter are also absolute paths.
me.setBaseDownloadPath("D:/download");
```

In the configuration above, in Linux, paths that start with "/" are considered absolute. So, `renderFile` will look for the download file under the "/var/download" path. 

This kind of configuration allows separation between project resources and download resources. It's also beneficial for cluster deployment (single-machine multi-instance deployment) where multiple nodes can share the same directory and the same set of downloadable files.

### 3. `renderFile(File file)`
The `renderFile(File file)` method directly uses the `File` parameter to get the download file, freeing it from the constraints of `baseDownloadPath`. It can point to a file located anywhere, like:

```java
String file = "D:/my-project/share/files/jfinal-all.zip";
renderFile(new File(file));
```

As shown, the `File` points to a file at an arbitrary location, bypassing the constraints of `baseDownloadPath`.

### 4. Renaming the Download File
If you don't want to use the original filename of the download file, you can specify a new download filename:

```java
renderFile("OldFileName.txt", "NewFileName.txt");
```

In this way, users downloading the file will see it as "NewFileName.txt", regardless of its original name on the server.