# 10.2 Validator
### 1. Basic Usage
The `Validator` class implements the `Interceptor` interface, making it an interceptor as well. Its configuration is identical to that of other interceptors. Here's a basic example:

```java
public class LoginValidator extends Validator {
    protected void validate(Controller c) {
       validateRequiredString("name", "nameMsg", "Please enter your username");
       validateRequiredString("pass", "passMsg", "Please enter your password");
    }
    protected void handleError(Controller c) {
       c.keepPara("name");
       c.render("login.html");
    }
}
```

In the `validate(Controller c)` method, you can call various `validateXxx(...)` methods for server-side validation. The `handleError(Controller c)` method allows you to call `c.keepPara(...)` to retain submitted values and send them back to the page. This method is only invoked when validation fails.

The `handleError` method uses `keepXxx` methods to retain the data from the form and pass it back to the page, which saves the user from re-entering form fields that have already been validated.

For model objects, you can use the `keepModel(...)` method, and for traditional Java bean objects, you can use `keepBean(...)`.

The `keepPara(...)` method keeps all data as a String by default. If you wish to keep them in a specific type, you can use `keepPara(Class, …)`.

### 2. setRet(...) and getRet()
JFinal 4.0 introduced the `setRet(Ret)` and `getRet()` methods. Here's a typical example:

```java
public class LoginValidator extends Validator {
 
   protected void validate(Controller c) {
      setRet(Ret.fail());
      	
      validateRequired("userName", "msg", "Email can't be empty");
      validateEmail("userName", "msg", "Email format is incorrect");
      validateRequired("password", "msg", "Password can't be empty");
      validateCaptcha("captcha", "msg", "Captcha is incorrect");
   }
   	
   protected void handleError(Controller c) {
      c.renderJson(getRet());
   }
}
```

In this example, `setRet(Ret.fail())` injects a `Ret` object into the `LoginValidator`. Subsequent `validateXxx` methods will store all validation results in this `Ret` object. In the `handleError` method, `c.renderJson(getRet())` retrieves and renders this `Ret` object.

### 3. Advanced Usage
Though the `Validator` class offers a rich set of `validateXxx(...)` methods, there are limits. If these methods don't meet your needs, you can use `validateRegex(...)` or ordinary Java code:

```java
protected void validate(Controller c) {
    String nickName = c.getPara("nickName");
    if (userService.isExists(nickName)) {
        addError("msg", "Nickname is already taken. Please choose another one.");
    }
}
```

In this example, common Java code combined with `addError(...)` allows for unlimited, flexible custom validation.

You can also set the validator to skip remaining validations after encountering the first failure:

```java
protected void validate(Controller c) {
    this.setShortCircuit(true);
    ....
}
```

`setShortCircuit(boolean)` sets the validation mode to "short-circuit," meaning it will skip the rest of the validations if one fails.