# 2.6 configInterceptor
### 1. Configuring Global Interceptors

The `configInterceptor` method is used to configure global interceptors. Global interceptors are divided into two categories: Control Layer and Business Layer. Below is a configuration example:
```
public void configInterceptor(Interceptors me) {
    // The following two lines of code configure global interceptors for the control layer
    me.add(new AuthInterceptor());
    me.addGlobalActionInterceptor(new AaaInterceptor());
    
    // The line below configures the global interceptor for the business layer
    me.addGlobalServiceInterceptor(new BbbInterceptor());
}
```
The above methods `me.add(...)` and `me.addGlobalActionInterceptor(...)` are completely equivalent and both configure interceptors that intercept all action methods in Controllers. Meanwhile, the interceptor configured by `me.addGlobalServiceInterceptor(...)` will intercept all public methods in the business layer.

Note: The so-called "business layer" mentioned above essentially refers to anything other than the "control layer". It doesn't necessarily have to be the business layer; it could be any class other than the controller.

Interceptors configured in the manner mentioned above can be removed at the method definition location using the `@Clear` annotation. The specific usage will be detailed in subsequent sections related to the `@Clear` annotation.

### 2. Levels/Granularity of Interceptor Configuration
The granularity of Interceptor configuration is divided into four levels: Global, Routes, Class, and Method. The configuration granularity mentioned above is global. Configurations for the Routes, Class, and Method levels will be detailed in subsequent sections.