# 6.1 Overview
The Enjoy Template Engine employs a unique DKFF (Dynamic Key Feature Forward) lexical analysis algorithm and a unique DLRD (Double Layer Recursive Descent) syntax analysis algorithm. These innovative approaches significantly reduce code volume, lower the learning curve, and enhance the user experience.

Unlike any previous Java template engine, it stands out for its minimalist design, original algorithms, and exceptional development experience. Here are some highlights from its release: [JFinal 3.0 Released, Redefining Template Engines](#)

From JFinal 3.0 to JFinal 3.3, the Enjoy engine has undergone meticulous refinement. Here are the highlights from the releases related to the fine-tuning of the Enjoy engine:

- JFinal 3.0 Released, Redefining Template Engines
- JFinal 3.1 Released, No Frills, No Complexity, Just Indescribable Beauty
- JFinal 3.2 Released, A Spark Now Ignites the Prairie
- JFinal 3.3 Released, In Martial Arts, Speed is Unbeatable

The Enjoy Template Engine is specifically designed for Java developers. Therefore, it adheres to two core design philosophies: First, it allows seamless interaction with Java code within the templates. Second, it aims to follow Java syntax rules as much as possible, minimizing the learning curve.

Thus, to grasp 90% of its usage, you only need to remember one sentence: The Enjoy Template Engine's expressions are directly connected with Java.

Once you remember the above sentence, you can happily use the template engine as shown below:
```
// Arithmetic operations
1 + 2 / 3 * 4
// Comparison operations
1 > 2
// Logical operations
!a && b != c || d == e
// Ternary expression
a > 0 ? a : b
// Method calls
"abcdef".substring(0, 3)
target.method(p1, p2, pn)
```
The core concepts of the Enjoy Template Engine are only directives and expressions. Since the expressions are directly connected with Java, there is no learning cost. All that remains to be understood are the #if, #for, #define, #set, #include, #switch, and #(...) seven directives, which are extremely easy to learn.

Since its release, the Enjoy Template Engine has received much love from its users. Feedback has proven that the experience is outstanding. If you haven't tried it yet, we strongly recommend giving it a go.