### 6.7 Shared Method Extension
#### 1. Basic Usage
The Enjoy Template Engine allows you to effortlessly use any public method from any Java class directly. The Java class being used doesn't need to implement any interfaces or inherit from any abstract classes, making it completely decoupled. The following code uses the `com.jfinal.kit.StrKit` class from JFinal as an example:

```java
public void configEngine(Engine me) {
   me.addSharedMethod(new com.jfinal.kit.StrKit());
}
```

The code above adds all the public methods from the `StrKit` class as shared methods. Once added, they can be used directly in the template. Here is a code example:

```plaintext
#if(isBlank(nickName))
   ...
#end
 
#if(notBlank(title))
   ...
#end
```

In the example above, the methods `isBlank` and `notBlank` are from the `StrKit` class. This extension method is simple, convenient, and decoupled.

#### 2. Default Shared Method Configuration Extension
The Enjoy Template Engine has a default configuration that adds `com.jfinal.template.ext.sharedmethod.SharedMethodLib` as a Shared Method. Therefore, the methods inside it can be used directly without any additional configuration. The library includes `isEmpty(...)` and `notEmpty(...)` methods.

The `isEmpty(...)` method is used to determine whether the number of elements in Collection, Map, Array, Iterator, and Iterable type objects is zero. The rules are as follows:

- Returns `true` for `null`
- For List, Set, and any class that inherits from Collection, returns `isEmpty()`
- For Map, returns `isEmpty()`
- For arrays, returns `length == 0`
- For Iterator, returns `!hasNext()`
- For Iterable, returns `!iterator().hasNext()`

Here is a code example:

```plaintext
#if ( isEmpty(list) )
    The number of elements in the list is 0
#end
 
#if ( notEmpty(map) )
    The number of elements in the map is greater than 0
#end
```

As shown above, `isEmpty(list)` checks if the number of elements in the list is greater than zero. The functionality of `notEmpty(...)` is exactly the opposite of `isEmpty(...)`, equivalent to `!isEmpty(...)`.