# 11.3 I18nInterceptor

The `I18nInterceptor` is a component provided for web applications to handle internationalization. Below is an example of how to use it in a Freemarker template:

### Configuration

First, configure `I18nInterceptor` as a global interceptor.

```java
public void configInterceptor(Interceptors me) {
  me.add(new I18nInterceptor());
}
```

### Usage in Template

Then, in the JFinal template engine, you can use the `_res` object to get internationalized data.

```html
#(_res.get("msg"))
```

The above code configures `I18nInterceptor` to intercept action requests and allows the Freemarker template files to use an object named `_res` to get internationalized data. The specific workflow of `I18nInterceptor` is as follows:

1. Tries to get the `locale` parameter from the request using `controller.getPara("_locale")`. If obtained, it saves it in a cookie.
   
2. If `controller.getPara("_locale")` does not get a value, it tries to get the `locale` parameter from `controller.getCookie("_locale")`.

3. If the above two steps still don't yield a `locale` parameter value, the value of `I18n.defaultLocale` is used as the `locale`.

4. Using the `locale` value obtained in the previous steps, `I18n.use(locale)` is called to get a `Res` object. This `Res` object is then passed to the view using `controller.setAttr("_res", res)`.

5. If `I18nInterceptor.isSwitchView` is set to `true`, it will also change the rendered view, enabling the overall template file to switch. Details can be checked in the source code.

### Customization

The variable names "_locale" and "_res" used in `I18nInterceptor` can be specified when creating the `I18nInterceptor` object. If not specified, default values will be used. You can also extend `I18nInterceptor` and override methods like `getLocalPara`, `getResName`, and `getBaseName` to implement more personalized features.

### Advanced Usage

In some web systems, the page requires a lot of text to be internationalized, and the CSS and HTML may also vary greatly due to internationalization. For such use-cases, you can create multiple sets of internationalized views with the same name and categorize these views in subdirectories based on `locale`. Finally, use the `I18nInterceptor` to dynamically switch views based on the `locale`. You just need to set `I18nInterceptor.isSwitchView` to `true` to achieve this, saving time and effort.