# 9.2 Cron4jPlugin
### 1. Basic Configuration
Cron4jPlugin exists as a plugin for JFinal, so it needs to be configured in JFinalConfig. Below is an example code snippet:
```java
Cron4jPlugin cp = new Cron4jPlugin();
cp.addTask("* * * * *", new MyTask());
me.add(cp);
```
As shown above, creating the plugin, passing parameters to `addTask`, and adding it to JFinal completes the basic configuration. The first parameter of `cp.addTask` is the cron expression for task scheduling, and the second parameter is an implementation of the `Runnable` interface. Cron4jPlugin will invoke the `run` method in `MyTask` according to the cron expression.

In the above example, besides using a `Runnable` implementation for `MyTask`, you can also use an implementation of the `ITask` interface. This interface has a `stop()` method that will be called back when scheduling stops.

### 2. Cron Expressions
Cron expressions are used to customize scheduling rules. Unlike Quartz's cron expression, Cron4jPlugin's cron expression allows up to five parts, each separated by a space. These five parts represent minute, hour, day, month, and week, respectively, and have the following rules:

- Minute: from 0 to 59
- Hour: from 0 to 23
- Day: from 1 to 31, the letter 'L' can represent the last day of the month
- Month: from 1 to 12, can use aliases like "jan", "feb", "mar", etc.
- Week: from 0 to 6, where 0 represents Sunday and 6 represents Saturday, can use aliases like "sun", "mon", "tue", etc.

These five parts support various characters, including:

- Number \( n \): Represents a specific time point, e.g., `5 * * * *` means to execute at the 5th minute.
- Comma \( , \): Specifies multiple values, e.g., `3,5 * * * *` means to execute at the 3rd and 5th minutes.
- Hyphen \( - \): Indicates a range, e.g., `1-3 * * * *` means to execute at the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd minutes.
- Asterisk \( * \): Means every time point, e.g., `* * * * *` means to execute every minute.
- Slash \( / \): Specifies an increment value, e.g., `*/5` means to execute every 5 minutes.

### Common Mistakes:
The use of the slash character in cron4j differs slightly from Linux. For example, the expression `10/3 * * * *` in Linux means to schedule every three minutes starting from the 10th minute, while in cron4j, you need to use `10-59/3 * * * *`.

### Frequently Asked Questions:
1. If a task throws an exception, will it be scheduled again at its next scheduled time? The answer is yes.
2. If a task takes a long time to execute and hasn't finished by the time it's scheduled again, will it still be scheduled? The answer is also yes.

In summary, each scheduling is independent; whether the last scheduling threw an exception or finished has no impact on the current scheduling.

### Special Reminder:
Cron4jPlugin's cron expression, like Linux's, only has five parts, unlike Quartz's seven parts. Any 7-part cron expressions found online should not be used with Cron4jPlugin.